Add documentation (#341)
BLAST-AI-ML/synapse: docs/source/dashboard.md

# Dashboard

The dashboard is a Trame application rooted at `dashboard/app.py`.

> It discovers experiments from `experiments/synapse-*`, reads each experiment's `config.yaml`, connects to MongoDB, loads MLflow models, and builds the GUI from manager classes.

Author: ```suggestion
It discovers experiments from `experiments/synapse-*`, reads each experiment's `config.yaml`, connects to MongoDB, loads MLflow models, and builds the GUI for operator control.
```

## Main Managers

- `state_manager.py`: shared Trame server, state, controller, and startup defaults.
- `model_manager.py`: MLflow model lookup, download, evaluation, and model training launch.
- `parameters_manager.py`: input sliders, parameter bounds, and single-simulation launch.
- `outputs_manager.py`: displayed output selection.
- `optimization_manager.py`: model-based input optimization with SciPy.
- `calibration_manager.py`: simulation-to-experiment variable conversion.
- `sfapi_manager.py`: Superfacility API credential upload, Perlmutter status, and job monitoring.
- `error_manager.py`: user-visible error collection.
- `utils.py`: config loading, database access, date filters, and Plotly figures.

## Views

- `/`: experiment selection, plots, parameter controls, optimization, ML controls, calibration controls, and errors.
- `/hpc`: NERSC Superfacility API credential and Perlmutter status panel.
- `/chat`: embedded assistant route.

## NERSC Credentials

Simulation and ML training launches require a Superfacility API key file uploaded through the dashboard.

> The file must be PEM-formatted and include the SFAPI client ID as the first line, followed by the private key.

Author: ```suggestion
The file must be PEM-formatted and include the Superfacility API client ID as the first line, followed by the private key.
```
